

Security Area

Director(s):

   o Steve Crocker:  crocker@tis.com

Area Summary reported by Steve Crocker/TIS

The Security Area within the IETF is responsible for development of
security oriented protocols, security review of RFCs, development of
candidate policies, and review of operational security on the Internet.

This report has two parts.  The first section covers highlights from the
meeting.  The second section covers the organization and operation of
the Security Area.

HIGHLIGHTS

Security Policy and Site Security Policy Handbook (SPWG and SSPHWG)

Both the Security Policy and Site Security Policy Handbook Working
Groups prepared drafts of their documents.  The security policy document
is a concise statement of principles for protection of information
assets and computing resources in the Internet.  Because it's intended
to act as a guide to others who will establish policies for their
networks, hosts, products, etc., the IAB determined that this document
will be called a Guidelines and will be issued as an informational RFC.
The document is now available as an Internet Draft.

The Site Security Policy Handbook is an extensive document that is
intended to serve as a basis for tailoring site-specific policies.  It
covers numerous facets of security including configuration, operation
and responses to incidents.

These efforts are the result of the hard work and persistence of the
Security Policy and Site Security Policy Handbook Working Groups.  The
members and particularly the Chairs of these groups deserve
congratulations for the work they have done.

Common Authentication Technology (CAT)

John Linn and Jeff Schiller will co-Chair a new Working Group to explore
and define a common authentication framework.  This work will embrace
MIT's Kerberos and Digital's SPx authentication servers.  Digital also

                                   1






unveiled its General Security Services Application Program Interface
(GSSAPI) which provides a common interface for SPx, Kerberos and any
other authentication service that may be defined in the future.  This
work is intended to provide a uniform method for applications to
authenticate connections in client-server and peer-peer connections.

Privacy Enhanced Mail (PEM)

The Privacy and Security Research Group (PSRG) under the Internet
Research Task Force (IRTF) has revised the specifications for privacy
enhanced mail.  The specifications are being released as Internet Drafts
and will be reviewed through the usual open process.  At this IETF
meeting, Jim Bidzos, the President of RSA Data Securityi, Inc, presented
the outline of the forthcoming organizational agreement.  (RSADSI holds
the patent on the RSA public key technology and is licensing its use for
privacy enhanced mail within the Internet.)  Additional open meetings
will be scheduled in forthcoming IETF meetings.

IP Security Option (IPSO)

Some time ago a protocol was defined for adding U.S. DoD security labels
at the IP level.  The protocol was never fully completed and sat in an
incomplete state.  Last fall, the effort was resurrected by Vint Cerf,
the IAB Chair.  Steve Kent has now completed the revisions to the
document, and it is now available as an Internet Draft.  This document
covers only the Basic Security Option and is applicable only to the U.S.
DoD security labels.  Another document is expected later which will
cover the Extended Security Option, and a separate effort is described
next which is intended to cover labels outside of the U.S. DoD
hierarchy.

Trusted Systems Interoperability Group (TSIG -- CIPSO and TNFS)

The Trusted Systems Interoperability Group is a consortium of computer
systems vendors developing protocols for trusted systems.  Has asked the
IETF and IAB for assistance in standardizing their protocols.  The
operation and rules of the TSIG are quite similar to the IAB and IETF.
Each of the TSIG's protocols is developed by a TSIG Working Group whose
deliberations are open to all.  In order to facilitate the publication
of protocols developed by the TSIG, the individual TSIG Working Groups
will be chartered as IETF Working Groups.  Two groups have submitted
charters, CIPSO and TNFS.

The CIPSO Working Group is developing a commercial IP security option.
This is intended to make security labels available to the commercial,
civilian U.S. government and non-U.S. government communities.  A draft
document is essentially complete and will be made available as an
Internet Draft.

                                   2






The TNFS Working Group is developing a trusted version of the NFS
(Network File System) protocol.  This work is being coordinated with the
distributed file systems Working Group in the Applications area.  This
work also depends on clarification of the status of NFS as a base for
building other protocols.

ORGANIZATION AND OPERATION

Much of the work of the Security Area is performed in coordination with
Working Groups in other areas.  Indeed, one of the primary tasks is to
provide security expertise to Working Groups in other IETF areas.

Starting with the December 1990 IETF meeting, we organized a Security
Area Advisory Group (SAAG) to gather together the limited number of
people knowledgeable about security in protocols and to provide a
coordinated forum for discussion of security issues in Internet
protocols.  We've also established a pattern of having the SAAG meet
twice during the IETF meeting, once at the beginning and once at the end
of week.  Although these are business meetings devoted principally to
assignment of tasks and coordination of new work items, observers are
welcome.

SAAG Operation

The main bulk of work for the SAAG consists of a set of formal work
items.  These work items correspond to three types of activities.

Security relevant developments within Working Groups in areas other than
security.

Assistance to the Telnet Working Group on authentication and encryption
is a typical example.  For items of this type, a SAAG member is assigned
and supports the Working Groups.

Working groups within the Security Area.

The development of SNMP security is an example.  In many cases, even
though a Working Group is in the Security Area, there are close ties to
another area.  SNMP security is obviously tied closely to the Management
area.  In several instances, it's a matter of choice whether a Working
Group is in the Security Area or in another area.  These decisions are
made on a case by case basis by mutual agreement of the respective Area
Directors.  In these cases the work is usally coordinated closely with
the relevant Area Director.

Preliminary inquiries

                                   3






These are topics which do not merit the creation of a formal Working
Group but which do need some level of attention.  These are assigned to
a SAAG member and followed for one or SAAG meeting.

In addition to the items formally being worked on by the SAAG, there are
other discussions that take place but do not lead to the creation of a
formal work item.  No follow up actions are scheduled for these.

The following table shows the work items and other discussions arranged
by status (SAAG, Security Area, Other Area, Prelim) and by which area
they interact with.  Minutes of the meetings of many of these groups are
included in these proceedings.

                       SAAG            Security Area   Other Areas    Prelim

Security                export          spwg
                       iabcc

Management                             snmpsec

User Services                          ssphwg

Routing                                                rreq

Applications            passwd          cat             telnet          email
                       privdb          pem(2)          npp             nntp
                       chronos                        tnfs(1)

Internet Services                      ipso                           iplpdn
                                       cipso(1)

OSI                                                   ds

Operations


(1) This is a TSIG WG
(2) PEM is being developed by the PSRG



                                   4
