






            Guidelines for the Secure Operation of the Internet

                              Richard Pethia
                               Steve Crocker
                              Barbara Fraser
                            September 30, 1991

     Status of the Memo

     This draft document will be submitted to the RFC editor as an
     informational document.  Distribution of this memo is unlimited.












































                                                                     1










     PREAMBLE

     The purpose of this document is to provide a set of guidelines to
     aid in the secure operation of the Internet.  During its history,
     the Internet has grown significantly and is now quite diverse.
     Its participants include government institutions and agencies,
     academic and research institutions, commercial network and elec-
     tronic mail carriers, non-profit research centers and an increas-
     ing array of industrial organizations who are primarily users of
     the technology.  Despite this dramatic growth, the system is
     still operated on a purely collaborative basis.  Each participat-
     ing network takes responsibility for its own operation.  Service
     providers, private network operators, users and vendors all
     cooperate to keep the system functioning.

     It is important to recognize that the voluntary nature of the
     Internet system is both its strength and, perhaps, its most fra-
     gile aspect.  Rules of operation, like the rules of etiquette,
     are voluntary and, largely, unenforceable, except where they hap-
     pen to coincide with national laws, violation of which can lead
     to prosecution.  A common set of rules for the successful and
     increasingly secure operation of the Internet can, at best, be
     voluntary, since the laws of various countries are not uniform
     regarding data networking.  Indeed, the guidelines outlined below
     also can be only voluntary.  However, since joining the Internet
     is optional, it is also fair to argue that any Internet rules of
     behavior are part of the bargain for joining and that failure to
     observe them, apart from any legal infrastructure available, are
     grounds for sanctions.


























                                                                     2










     INTRODUCTION

     These guidelines address the entire Internet community, consist-
     ing of users, hosts, local, regional, domestic and international
     backbone networks, and vendors who supply operating systems,
     routers, network management tools, workstations and other network
     components.

     Security is understood to include protection of the privacy of
     information, protection of information against unauthorized
     modification, protection of systems against denial of service,
     and protection of systems against unauthorized access.

     These guidelines encompass six main points.  These points are
     repeated and elaborated in the next section.  In addition, a
     bibliography of computer and network related references has been
     provided at the end of this document for use by the reader.


     _________________________________________________________________


     SECURITY GUIDELINES

     (1)  Users are individually responsible for understanding and
          respecting the security policies of the systems (computers
          and networks) they are using.  Users are individually
          accountable for their own behavior.

     (2)  Users have a responsibility to employ available security
          mechanisms and procedures for protecting their own data.
          They also have a responsibility for assisting in the protec-
          tion of the systems they use.

     (3)  Computer and network service providers are responsible for
          maintaining the security of the systems they operate.  They
          are further responsible for notifying users of their secu-
          rity policies and any changes to these policies.

     (4)  Vendors and system developers are responsible for providing
          systems which are sound and which embody adequate security
          controls.

     (5)  Users, service providers, and hardware and software vendors
          are responsible for cooperating to provide security.

     (6)  Technical improvements in Internet security protocols should
          be sought on a continuing basis.  At the same time, person-
          nel developing new protocols, hardware or software for the
          Internet are expected to include security considerations as
          part of the design and development process.




                                                                     3










     ELABORATION

     (1)  Users are individually responsible for understanding and
          respecting the security policies of the systems (computers
          and networks) they are using.  Users are individually
          accountable for their own behavior.

          Users are responsible for their own behavior. Weaknesses in
          the security of a system are not a license to penetrate or
          abuse a system.  Users are expected to be aware of the secu-
          rity policies of computers and networks which they access
          and to adhere to these policies.  One clear consequence of
          this guideline is that unauthorized access to a computer or
          use of a network is explicitly a violation of Internet rules
          of conduct, no matter how weak the protection of those com-
          puters or networks.

          There is growing international attention to legal prohibi-
          tion against unauthorized access to computer systems, and
          several countries have recently passed legislation that
          addresses the area (e.g. United Kingdom, Australia).  In the
          United States, the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986,
          Title 18 U.S.C.  section 1030 makes it a crime, in certain
          situations, to access a Federal interest computer (federal
          government computers, financial institution computers, and a
          computer which is one of two or more computers used in com-
          mitting the offense, not all of which are located in the
          same state) without authorization.  Most of the 50 states in
          the U.S have similar laws.

          Another aspect of this part of the policy is that users are
          individually responsible for all use of resources assigned
          to them, and hence sharing of accounts and access to
          resources is strongly discouraged.  However, since access to
          resources is assigned by individual sites and network opera-
          tors, the specific rules governing sharing of accounts and
          protection of access is necessarily a local matter.

     (2)  Users have a responsibility to employ available security
          mechanisms and procedures for protecting their own data.
          They also have a responsibility for assisting in the protec-
          tion of the systems they use.

          Users are expected to handle account privileges in a respon-
          sible manner and to follow site procedures for the security
          of their data as well as that of the system.  For systems
          which rely upon password protection, users should select
          good passwords and periodically change them.  Proper use of
          file protection mechanisms (e.g. access control lists) so as
          to define and maintain appropriate file access control is
          also part of this responsibility.




                                                                     4










     (3)  Computer and network service providers are responsible for
          maintaining the security of the systems they operate.  They
          are further responsible for notifying users of their secu-
          rity policies and any changes to these policies.

          A computer or network service provider may manage resources
          on behalf of users within an organization (e.g. provision of
          network and computer services with a university) or it may
          provide services to a larger, external community (e.g. a
          regional network provider).  These resources may include
          host computers employed by users, routers, terminal servers,
          personal computers or other devices that have access to the
          Internet.

          Because the Internet itself is neither centrally managed nor
          operated, responsibility for security rests with the owners
          and operators of the subscriber components of the Internet.
          Moreover, even if there were a central authority for this
          infrastructure, security necessarily is the responsibility
          of the owners and operators of the systems which are the
          primary data and processing resources of the Internet.

          There are tradeoffs between stringent security measures at a
          site and ease of use of systems (e.g. stringent security
          measures may complicate user access to the Internet).  If a
          site elects to operate an unprotected, open system, it may
          be providing a platform for attacks on other Internet hosts
          while concealing the attacker's identity.  Sites which do
          operate open systems are nonetheless responsible for the
          behavior of the systems' users and should be prepared to
          render assistance to other sites when needed.  Whenever pos-
          sible, sites should try to ensure authenticated Internet
          access.  The readers are directed to appendix A for a brief
          descriptive list of elements of good security.

          Sites (including network service providers) are encouraged
          to develop security policies.  These policies should be
          clearly communicated to users and subscribers.  The Site
          Security Handbook (RFC 1244) provides useful information and
          guidance on developing good security policies and procedures
          at both the site and network level.

     (4)  Vendors and system developers are responsible for providing
          systems which are sound and which embody adequate security
          controls.

          A vendor or system developer should evaluate each system in
          terms of security controls prior to the introduction of the
          system into the Internet community.  Each product (whether
          offered for sale or freely distributed) should describe the
          security features it incorporates.

          Vendors and system developers have an obligation to repair


                                                                     5










          flaws in the security relevant portions of the systems they
          sell (or freely provide) for use in the Internet.  They are
          expected to cooperate with the Internet community in estab-
          lishing mechanisms for the reporting of security flaws and
          in making security-related fixes available to the community
          in a timely fashion.

     (5)  Users, service providers, and hardware and software vendors
          are responsible for cooperating to provide security.

          The Internet is a cooperative venture.  The culture and
          practice in the Internet is to render assistance in security
          matters to other sites and networks.  Each site is expected
          to notify other sites if it detects a penetration in pro-
          gress at the other sites, and all sites are expected to help
          one another respond to security violations.  This assistance
          may include tracing connections, tracking violators and
          assisting law enforcement efforts.

          There is a growing appreciation within the Internet commun-
          ity that security violators should be identified and held
          accountable.  This means that once a violation has been
          detected, sites are encouraged to cooperate in finding the
          violator and assisting in enforcement efforts.  It is recog-
          nized that many sites will face a trade-off between securing
          their sites as rapidly as possible versus leaving their site
          open in the hopes of identifying the violator.  Sites will
          also be faced with the dilemma of limiting the knowledge of
          a penetration versus exposing the fact that a penetration
          has occurred.  This policy does not dictate that a site must
          expose either its system or its reputation if it decides not
          to, but sites are encouraged to render as much assistance as
          they can.

     (6)  Technical improvements in Internet security protocols should
          be sought on a continuing basis.  At the same time, person-
          nel developing new protocols, hardware or software for the
          Internet are expected to include security considerations as
          part of the design and development process.

          The points discussed above are all administrative in nature,
          but technical advances are also important.  Existing proto-
          cols and operating systems do not provide the level of secu-
          rity that is desired and feasible today.  Three types of
          advances are encouraged:


          (a)  Improvements should be made in the basic security
               mechanisms already in place.  Password security is gen-
               erally poor throughout the Internet and can be improved
               markedly through the use of tools to administer pass-
               word assignment and through the use of better authenti-
               cation technology.  At the same time, the Internet user


                                                                     6










               population is expanding to include a larger percentage
               of technically unsophisticated users.  Security
               defaults on delivered systems and the controls for
               administering security must be geared to this growing
               population.

          (b)  Security extensions to the protocol suite are needed.
               Candidate protocols which should be augmented to
               improve security include network management, routing,
               file transfer, telnet, mail, etc.

          (c)  The design and implementation of operating systems
               should be improved to place more emphasis on security
               and pay more attention to the quality of the implemen-
               tation of security within systems on the Internet.








































                                                                     7










                                     APPENDIX A

     Five areas should be addressed in improving local security:

     (1)  There must be a clear statement of the local security pol-
          icy, and this policy must be communicated to the users and
          other relevant parties.  The policy should be on file and
          available to users at all times, and should be communicated
          to users as part of providing access to the system.

     (2)  Adequate security controls must be implemented.  At a
          minimum, this means controlling access to systems via pass-
          words, instituting sound password management, and configur-
          ing the system to protect itself and the information within
          it.

     (3)  There must be a capability to monitor security compliance
          and respond to incidents involving violation of security.
          Logs of logins, attempted logins, and other security-
          relevant events are strongly advised, as well as regular
          audit of these logs.  Also recommended is a capability to
          trace connections and other events in response to penetra-
          tions.  However, it is important for service providers to
          have a well thought out and published policy about what
          information they gather, who has access to it and for what
          purposes.  Maintaining the privacy of network users should
          be kept in mind when developing such a policy.

     (4)  There must be an established chain of communication and con-
          trol to handle security matters.  A responsible person
          should be identified as the security contact.  The means for
          reaching the security contact should be made known to all
          users and should be registered in public directories, and it
          should be easy for computer emergency response centers to
          find contact information at any time.

          The security contact should be familiar with the technology
          and configuration of all systems at the site or should be
          able to get in touch with those who have this knowledge at
          any time.  Likewise, the security contact should be pre-
          authorized to make a best effort to deal with a security
          incident, or should be able to contact those with the
          authority at any time.

     (5)  Sites and networks which are notified of security incidents
          should respond in a timely and effective manner.  In the
          case of penetrations or other violations, sites and networks
          should allocate resources and capabilities to identify the
          nature of the incident and limit the damage.  A site or net-
          work cannot be considered to have good security if it does
          not respond to incidents in a timely and effective fashion.

          If a violator can be identified, appropriate action should


                                                                     8










          be taken to ensure that no further violations are caused.
          Exactly what sanctions should be brought against a violator
          depend on the nature of the incident and the site environ-
          ment.  For example, a university may choose to bring inter-
          nal disciplinary action against a student violator.

          Similarly, sites and networks should respond when notified
          of security flaws in their systems. Sites and networks have
          the responsibility to install fixes in their systems as they
          become available.













































                                                                     9










                      A Bibliography of Computer and
                    Network Security Related Documents


            United States Public Laws (PL) and Federal Policies

     [1]  P.L. 100-235, The Computer Security Act of 1987, |- Jan. 8,
          1988.

     [2]  P.L. 99-474 (H.R. 4718), Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of
          1986, Oct. 16, 1986.

     [3]  P.L. 99-508 (H.R. 4952), Electronic Communications Privacy
          Act of 1986, Oct. 21, 1986.

     [4]  P.L. 99-591, Paperwork Reduction Reauthorization Act of
          1986, Oct. 30, 1986.

     [5]  P.L. 93-579, Privacy Act of 1984, Dec. 31, 1984.

     [6]  National Security Decision Directive 145. |-

     [7]  "Security of Federal Automated Information Systems", |-
          Appendix III of, Management of Federal Information
          Resources, Office of Management and Budget (OMB), Circular
          A-130.

     [8]  Protection of Government Contractor Telecommunications,|-
          National Communications Security Instruction (NACSI) 6002.


                                Other Documents

     [9]  Secure Systems Study Committee, Computers at Risk: Safe Com-
          puting in the Information Age, Computer Science and Technol-
          ogy Board, National Research Council, 2101 Constitution Ave-
          nue, Washington, DC 20418, December 1990.

     [10] David A. Curry, Improving the Security of Your UNIX System,
          Report No. ITSTD-721-FR-90-21, SRI International, 333
          Ravenswood Av., Menlo Park, CA, 94025-3493, April 1990.

     [11] P. Holbrook and J. Reynolds, "Site Security Handbook", RFC
          1244, Internet Engineering Task Force, July 1991.

     [12] Industry Information Protection, Vols. I,II,III, Industry
          Information Security Task Force, President's National
          Telecommunications Advisory Committee, June 1988.

     ____________________

        |- Contained in Appendix C of Citation No. 11, Vol II.



                                                                    10










     [13] G. F. Jelen, Information Security: An Elusive Goal, Report
          No. P-85-8, Harvard University, Center for Information Pol-
          icy Research, 200 Akin, Cambridge, MA.  02138, June 1985.

     [14] Electronic Record Systems and Individual Privacy, OTA-CIT-
          296, Congress of the United States, Office of Technology
          Assessment, Washington, D.C. 20510, June 1986.

     [15] Defending Secrets, Sharing Data, OTA-CIT-310, Congress of
          the United States, Office of Technology Assessment, Washing-
          ton, D.C. 20510, Oct. 1987.

     [16] "Summary of General Legislation Relating to Privacy and Com-
          puter Security", Appendix 1 of, COMPUTERS and PRIVACY: How
          the Government Obtains, Verifies, Uses and Protects Personal
          Data, GAO/IMTEC-90-70BR, United States General Accounting
          Office, Washington, DC 20548, pp. 36-40, Aug. 1990.

     [17] Elain Stout, U.S. Geological Survey System Security Plan -
          FY 1990, U.S. Geological Survey ISD, MS809, Reston, VA,
          22092, May 1990.


































                                                                    11



