CIPSO Working Group
Internet Draft
1 November, 1991



                      COMMERCIAL IP SECURITY OPTION



Status of this Memo

This Internet Draft provides the high level specification for a Commercial 
IP Security Option (CIPSO).  This new option is meant to complement, not
replace, the existing IP security options and their successors.  This draft 
reflects the version as approved by the CIPSO IETF Working Group. 
Distribution of this memo is unlimited.


1.    Background

Currently the Internet Protocol includes two security options.  One of 
these options is the DoD Basic Security Option (BSO) (Type 130) which allows 
IP datagrams to be labeled with security classifications.  This option 
provides sixteen security classifications and a variable number of handling 
restrictions.  To handle additional security information, such as security 
categories or compartments, another security option (Type 133) exists and 
is referred to as the DoD Extended Security Option (ESO).  The values for 
the fixed fields within these two options are administered by the Defense 
Communications Agency (DCA).

Computer vendors are now building commercial operating systems with 
mandatory access controls and multi-level security.  These systems are
no longer built specifically for a particular group in the defense or
intelligence communities.  They are generally available commercial systems
for use in a variety of government and civil sector environments. 

The small number of ESO format codes can not support all the possible 
applications of a commercial security option.  The BSO and ESO were 
designed to only support the United States DoD.  CIPSO has been designed 
to support multiple security policies.  This Internet Draft provides the 
format and procedures required to support a Mandatory Access Control 
security policy.  Support for additional security policies will be defined 
in future RFCs.


2.    CIPSO Format

Option type: 134 (Class 0, Number 6, Copy on Fragmentation)
Option length: Variable

This option permits security related information to be passed between
systems within a single Domain of Interpretation (DOI).  A DOI is a
collection of systems which agree on the meaning of particular values
in the security option.  An authority that has been assigned a DOI 
identifier will define and distribute to hosts within the authority's 
domain a mapping between appropriate CIPSO field values to their human 
readable equivalent.  These mappings may be sensitive, therefore a DOI 
authority is not required to make these mappings available to anyone other 



CIPSO IETF WORKING GROUP                                     [PAGE 1]



CIPSO INTERNET DRAFT                                   1 November, 1991



than the systems that are included in the DOI.  

This option MUST be copied on fragmentation.  This option appears at most 
once in a datagram.  All multi-octet fields in the option are defined to be 
transmitted in network byte order.  The format of this option is as follows:

+----------+----------+------//------+-----------//---------+
| 10000110 | LLLLLLLL | DDDDDDDDDDDD | TTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTT |
+----------+----------+------//------+-----------//---------+

  TYPE=134    OPTION    DOMAIN OF               TAGS
              LENGTH    INTERPRETATION


                Figure 1. CIPSO Format


2.1    Type

This field is 1 octet in length.  Its value is 134.


2.2    Length.

This field is 1 octet in length.  It is the total length of the option
including the type and length fields.  With the current IP header length
restriction of 40 octets the value of this field will range from 6 to 40.


2.3    Domain of Interpretation Identifier

The length of this field is 4 octets. Its values are from 1-0xffffffff.  
The value 0 is reserved and must not appear as the DOI identifier in any 
CIPSO option.  Implementations must assume that the DOI identifier field 
is not aligned on any particular byte boundary.

To conserve space in the protocol, security levels and categories are 
represented by numbers rather than their ASCII equivalent.  This requires
a mapping table within CIPSO hosts to map these numbers to their 
corresponding ASCII representations.  Non-related groups of systems will 
have their own unique mappings.  For example, one group of systems may 
use the number 5 to represent Unclassified while another group may use the 
number 1 to represent that same security level.  The DOI identifier is used 
to identify which mapping was used for the values within the option.


2.4    Tag Types

A common format for passing security related information is necessary
for interoperability. In CIPSO the security related information is
defined to be a stream of tags that begin with a tag type identifier
followed by the length of the tag and ends with the actual security
information to be passed.  All multi-octet fields in a tag are defined 
to be transmitted in network byte order.  Like the DOI identifier field 
in the CIPSO header, implementations must assume that all tags, as well 



CIPSO IETF WORKING GROUP                                     [PAGE 2]



CIPSO INTERNET DRAFT                                   1 November, 1991



as fields within a tag, are not aligned on any particular octet boundary. 

CIPSO tag types 0 through 127 are reserved for defining standard tag
formats and their definitions will be published in this and future RFCs.
Tag types whose identifiers are greater than 127 are defined by the DOI 
authority and may only be meaningful in certain Domains of Interpretation.  
For these tag types, implementations will require the DOI identifier as 
well as the tag number to determine the security policy and the format 
associated with the tag.  Use of tag types above 127 are restricted to 
closed networks where interoperability with other networks will not be an 
issue.

Tag type 0 is reserved. Tag types 1, 2, and 5 are defined in this 
Internet Draft.  Types 3 and 4 are reserved for work in progress.
The standard format for all current and future CIPSO tags is shown below:

+----------+----------+--------//--------+
| TTTTTTTT | LLLLLLLL | IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII |
+----------+----------+--------//--------+
    TAG       TAG         TAG
    TYPE      LENGTH      INFORMATION

    Figure 2:  Standard Tag Format

In the three tag types described in this document, the length and count
restrictions are based on the current IP limitation of 40 octets for all
IP options.  If the IP header is later expanded then the length and count
restrictions specified in this document may be assumed to increase to use 
the full area provided for IP options.


2.4.1    Tag Type Classes

Tag classes consist of tag types that have common processing requirements 
and support the same security policy.  The three tags defined in this 
Internet Draft belong to the Mandatory Access Control (MAC) Sensitivity 
class and support the MAC Sensitivity security policy.


2.4.2    Tag Type 1

This is referred to as the "bit-mapped" tag type.  Tag type 1 is included
in the MAC Sensitivity tag type class.  The format of this tag type is as 
follows:

+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------//---------+
| 00000001 | LLLLLLLL | 00000000 | LLLLLLLL | CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+--------//---------+

    TAG       TAG      ALIGNMENT  SENSITIVITY    BIT MAP OF
    TYPE      LENGTH   OCTET      LEVEL          CATEGORIES

            Figure 3. Tag Type 1 Format





CIPSO IETF WORKING GROUP                                     [PAGE 3]



CIPSO INTERNET DRAFT                                   1 November, 1991



2.4.2.1    Tag Type

This field is 1 octet in length and has a value of 1.


2.4.2.2    Tag Length

This field is 1 octet in length.  It is the total length of the tag type
including the type and length fields.  With the current IP header length
restriction of 40 bytes the value within this field will be between 4
and 34.


2.4.2.3    Alignment Octet

This field is 1 octet in length and always has the value of 0.  Its purpose
is to align the category bitmap field on an even octet boundary.  This will
speed many implementations including router implementations.


2.4.2.4    Sensitivity Level

This field is 1 octet in length. Its value is from 0-255.  The values are
assumed to be ordered with 0 being the minimum value and 255 representing 
the maximum value.


2.4.2.5    Bit Map of Categories

The length of this field is variable and ranges from 0 to 30 octets.  This 
provides representation of categories 0 to 239.  The ordering of the bits 
is left to right or MSB to LSB.  For example category 0 is represented by 
the most significant bit of the first byte and category 15 is represented 
by the least significant bit of the second byte.  Figure 4 graphically 
shows this ordering.  Bit N is binary 1 if category N is part of the label 
for the datagram, and bit N is binary 0 if category N is not part of the 
label.  Except for the optimized tag 1 format described in the next section, 
minimal encoding SHOULD be used resulting in no trailing zero octets in the 
category bitmap.

        octet 0  octet 1  octet 2  octet 3  octet 4  octet 5 
        XXXXXXXX XXXXXXXX XXXXXXXX XXXXXXXX XXXXXXXX XXXXXXXX . . . 
bit     01234567 89111111 11112222 22222233 33333333 44444444
number             012345 67890123 45678901 23456789 01234567

            Figure 4. Ordering of Bits in Tag 1 Bit Map


2.4.2.6    Optimized Tag 1 Format

Routers work most efficiently when processing fixed length fields.  To
support networks that require high bandwidth routing there is an optimized
form of tag type 1.  The format does not change.  The only change is to the
category bitmap which is set to a constant length of 10 octets.  Trailing 
octets required to fill out the 10 octets are zero filled.  Ten octets, 



CIPSO IETF WORKING GROUP                                     [PAGE 4]



CIPSO INTERNET DRAFT                                   1 November, 1991



allowing for 80 categories, was chosen because it makes the total length of 
the CIPSO option 20 octets.  If CIPSO is the only option then the options 
field will be full word aligned and additional filler octets will not be 
required.
 

2.4.3    Tag Type 2

This is referred to as the "enumerated" tag type.  It is used to describe 
large but sparsely populated sets of categories.  Tag type 2 is in the MAC
Sensitivity tag type class.  The format of this tag type is as follows:

+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------------//-------------+
| 00000010 | LLLLLLLL | 00000000 | LLLLLLLL | CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------------//-------------+

    TAG       TAG      ALIGNMENT  SENSITIVITY         ENUMERATED
    TYPE      LENGTH   OCTET      LEVEL               CATEGORIES

                Figure 5. Tag Type 2 Format


2.4.3.1     Tag Type

This field is one octet in length and has a value of 2.


2.4.3.2    Tag Length

This field is 1 octet in length. It is the total length of the tag type
including the type and length fields.  With the current IP header length       
 
restriction of 40 bytes the value within this field will be between 4 
and 34.


2.4.3.3    Alignment Octet

This field is 1 octet in length and always has the value of 0.  Its purpose
is to align the category field on an even octet boundary.  This will
speed many implementations including router implementations.


2.4.3.4    Sensitivity Level

This field is 1 octet in length. Its value is from 0-255.  The values are
assumed to be ordered with 0 being the minimum value and 255 representing 
the maximum value.


2.4.3.5    Enumerated Categories

In this tag, categories are represented by their actual value rather than
by their position within a bit field.  The length of each category is 2 
octets.  Up to 15 categories may be represented by this tag.  Valid values 
for categories are 0-65534.  Category 65535 is not a valid category value.



CIPSO IETF WORKING GROUP                                     [PAGE 5]



CIPSO INTERNET DRAFT                                   1 November, 1991



The categories must be listed in the tag in ascending order.


2.4.4    Tag Type 5

This is referred to as the "range" tag type.  It is used to represent
labels where all categories in a range, or set of ranges, are included
in the sensitivity label.  Tag type 5 is in the MAC Sensitivity tag type 
class.  The format of this tag type is as follows:

+----------+----------+----------+----------+------------//-------------+
| 00000101 | LLLLLLLL | 00000000 | LLLLLLLL |  Top/Bottom | Top/Bottom  |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+------------//-------------+

    TAG       TAG      ALIGNMENT  SENSITIVITY        CATEGORY RANGES
    TYPE      LENGTH   OCTET      LEVEL                 

                     Figure 6. Tag Type 5 Format


2.4.4.1     Tag Type

This field is one octet in length and has a value of 5.


2.4.4.2    Tag Length

This field is 1 octet in length. It is the total length of the tag type
including the type and length fields.  With the current IP header length
restriction of 40 bytes the value within this field will be between 4 
and 34.


2.4.4.3    Alignment Octet

This field is 1 octet in length and always has the value of 0.  Its purpose
is to align the category range field on an even octet boundary.  This will
speed many implementations including router implementations.


2.4.4.4    Sensitivity Level

This field is 1 octet in length. Its value is from 0-255.  The values are
assumed to be ordered with 0 being the minimum value and 255 representing 
the maximum value.


2.4.4.5    Category Ranges

Category ranges are pairs of 2 octet values that represent the top and 
bottom of a category range respectively.  These range endpoints are 
inclusive within the range of categories.  All categories within a range
are assumed to be included in the sensitivity label.  This tag may contain 
a maximum of 7 category pairs.  The bottom category endpoint for the last 
pair in the tag may be omitted and will be assumed to be 0.  The ranges 



CIPSO IETF WORKING GROUP                                     [PAGE 6]



CIPSO INTERNET DRAFT                                   1 November, 1991



must be non-overlapping and be listed in descending order.


2.4.5     Minimum Requirements 

A CIPSO implementation MUST be capable of generating at least tag type 1 in
the non-optimized form.  In addition, a CIPSO implementation MUST be able
to receive any valid tag type 1 even those using the optimized tag type 1
format.


3.    Configuration Parameters

The configuration parameters defined below are required for all CIPSO hosts,
gateways, and routers that support multiple sensitivity labels.  A CIPSO 
host is defined to be the origination or destination system for an IP 
datagram.  A CIPSO gateway provides IP routing services between two or more 
IP networks and may be requiremented to perform label translations between
networks.  A CIPSO gateway may be an enhanced CIPSO host or it may just
provide gateway services with no end system CIPSO capabilities.  A CIPSO 
router is a dedicated IP router that routes IP datagrams between two or more 
IP networks.  

An implementation of CIPSO on a host must have the capability to reject a 
datagram for reasons that the information contained can not be adequately 
protected by the receiving host or if acceptance may result in violation of 
the host or network security policy.  In addition, a CIPSO gateway or router
must be able to reject datagrams going to networks that can not provide 
adequate protection or may violate the network's security policy.  To 
provide this capability the following minimal set of configuration 
parameters are required for CIPSO implementations:

HOST_LABEL_MAX - This parameter contains the maximum sensitivity label that
a CIPSO host is authorized to handle.  All datagrams that have a label greater
than this maximum must be rejected by the CIPSO host.  This parameter does
not apply to CIPSO gateways or routers.  This parameter need not be defined
explicitly as it can be implicitly derived from the PORT_LABEL_MAX 
parameters for the associated interfaces.

HOST_LABEL_MIN - This parameter contains the minimum sensitivity label that
a CIPSO host is authorized to handle.  All datagrams that have a label less
than this minimum must be rejected by the CIPSO host.  This parameter does
not apply to CIPSO gateways or routers.  This parameter need not be defined
explicitly as it can be implicitly derived from the PORT_LABEL_MIN 
parameters for the associated interfaces.

PORT_LABEL_MAX - This parameter contains the maximum sensitivity label for
all datagrams that may exit a particular network interface port.  All 
outgoing datagrams that have a label greater than this maximum must be 
rejected by the CIPSO system.  The label within this parameter will be less 
than or equal to the label within the HOST_LABEL_MAX parameter.  This 
parameter does not apply to CIPSO hosts that support only one network port.

PORT_LABEL_MIN - This parameter contains the minimum sensitivity label for
all datagrams that may exit a particular network interface port.  All 



CIPSO IETF WORKING GROUP                                     [PAGE 7]



CIPSO INTERNET DRAFT                                   1 November, 1991



outgoing datagrams that have a label less than this minimum must be 
rejected by the CIPSO system.  The label within this parameter will be 
greater than or equal to the label within the HOST_LABEL_MIN parameter.  
This parameter does not apply to CIPSO hosts that support only one network 
port.

PORT_DOI - This parameter is used to assign a DOI identifier value to a 
particular network interface port.  All CIPSO labels within datagrams 
going out this port will use the specified DOI identifier.  All CIPSO hosts 
and gateways will support either this parameter, the NET_DOI parameter, or 
the HOST_DOI parameter.  

NET_DOI - This parameter is used to assign a DOI identifier value to a 
particular IP network address.  All CIPSO labels within datagrams destined 
for the particular IP network will use the specified DOI identifier.  All 
CIPSO hosts and gateways will support either this parameter, the PORT_DOI 
parameter, or the HOST_DOI parameter.  

HOST_DOI - This parameter is used to assign a DOI identifier value to a 
particular IP host address.  All CIPSO labels within datagrams destined for 
the particular IP host will use the specified DOI identifier.  All CIPSO 
hosts and gateways will support either this parameter, the PORT_DOI 
parameter, or the NET_DOI parameter.  

This list represents the minimal set of configuration parameters required 
to be compliant.  Implementors are encouraged to add to this list to 
provide enhanced functionality and control.  For example, many security 
policies may require both incoming and outgoing datagrams be checked against
the port and host label ranges.


3.1    Port Range Parameters

The labels represented by the PORT_LABEL_MAX and PORT_LABEL_MIN parameters
may be in CIPSO or local format.  Some CIPSO systems, such as routers, may
want to have the range parameters expressed in CIPSO format so that incoming
labels do not have to be converted to a local format before being compared
against the range.  If multiple DOIs are supported by one of these CIPSO 
systems then multiple port range parameters would be needed, one set for 
each DOI supported on a particular port.  

The port range will usually represent the total set of labels that may 
exist on the logical network accessed through the corresponding network 
interface.  It may, however, represent a subset of these labels that are 
allowed to enter the CIPSO system.  


3.2    Single Label CIPSO Hosts

CIPSO implementations that support only one label are not required to 
support the parameters described above.  These limited implementations are
only required to support a NET_LABEL parameter.  This parameter contains
the CIPSO label that may be inserted in datagrams that exit the host.  In
addition, the host must reject any incoming datagram that has a label which 
is not equivalent to the NET_LABEL parameter.  



CIPSO IETF WORKING GROUP                                     [PAGE 8]



CIPSO INTERNET DRAFT                                   1 November, 1991





4.    Handling Procedures

This section describes the processing requirements for incoming and 
outgoing IP datagrams.  Just providing the correct CIPSO label format
is not enough.  Assumptions will be made by one system on how a 
receiving system will handle the CIPSO label.  Wrong assumptions may 
lead to non-interoperability or even a security incident.  The 
requirements described below represent the minimal set needed for 
interoperability and that provide users some level of confidence.
Many other requirements could be added to increase user confidence,
however at the risk of restricting creativity and limiting vendor
participation.


4.1    Input Procedures

All datagrams received through a network port must have a security label
associated with them.  Without this label the host, gateway, or router 
will not have the information it needs to make security decisions.  
This security label will be obtained from the CIPSO if the option is 
present in the datagram.  See section 4.1.2 for handling procedures for
unlabeled datagrams.  This label will be compared against the PORT 
(if appropriate) and HOST configuration parameters defined in section 3.  

If any field within the CIPSO option, such as the DOI identifier, is not 
recognized the IP datagram is discarded and an ICMP "parameter problem" 
(type 12) is generated and returned.  The ICMP code field is set to "bad 
parameter" (code 0) and the pointer is set to the start of the CIPSO field 
that is unrecognized.

If the contents of the CIPSO are valid but the security label is
outside of the configured host or port label range, the datagram is 
discarded and an ICMP "destination unreachable" (type 3) is generated 
and returned.  The code field of the ICMP is set to "communication with 
destination network administratively prohibited" (code 9) or to 
"communication with destination host administratively prohibited" 
(code 10).  The value of the code field used is dependent upon whether
the originator of the ICMP message is acting as a CIPSO host or a CIPSO
gateway.  The recipient of the ICMP message must be able to handle either 
value.

If the error is triggered by receipt of an ICMP message, the message 
is discarded and no response is permitted (consistent with general ICMP 
processing rules).


4.1.1    Unrecognized tag types
    
The default condition for any CIPSO implementation is that an 
unrecognized tag type will be treated as a "parameter problem" and 
handled as described in section 4.1.  A CIPSO implementation may allow 
the system administrator to identify tag types that may safely be 
ignored.  This capability is an allowable enhancement, not a 



CIPSO IETF WORKING GROUP                                     [PAGE 9]



CIPSO INTERNET DRAFT                                   1 November, 1991



requirement.


4.1.2    Unlabeled Packets

A network port may be configured to not require a CIPSO label for all
incoming  datagrams.  For this configuration a CIPSO label must be 
assigned to that network port and associated with all unlabeled IP 
datagrams.  This capability might be used for single level networks or
networks that have CIPSO and non-CIPSO hosts and the non-CIPSO hosts 
all operate at the same label.

If a CIPSO option is required and none is found, the datagram is 
discarded and an ICMP "parameter problem" (type 12) is generated and 
returned to the originator of the datagram.  The code field of the ICMP 
is set to "option missing" (code 1) and the ICMP pointer is set to 134 
(the value of the option type for the missing CIPSO option).


4.2    Output Procedures

A CIPSO option may appear only once in a datagram.  Only one tag type 
from the MAC Sensitivity class may be included in a CIPSO option.  Given 
the current set of defined tag types, this means that CIPSO labels at 
first will contain only one tag.  Compliant CIPSO implementations must be 
able to support multiple tags within a CIPSO option.

All datagrams leaving a CIPSO system must meet the following condition:

        PORT_LABEL_MIN <= CIPSO label <= PORT_LABEL_MAX   

If this condition is not satisfied the datagram must be discarded.
If the CIPSO system only supports one port, the HOST_LABEL_MIN and the
HOST_LABEL_MAX parameters may be substituted for the PORT parameters in 
the above condition.

The DOI identifier to be used for all outgoing datagrams is configured by 
the administrator.  If port level DOI identifier assignment is used, then 
the PORT_DOI configuration parameter will contain the DOI identifier to use.  
If network level DOI assignment is used, then the NET_DOI parameter will 
contain the DOI identifier to use.  And if host level DOI assignment is 
employed, then the HOST_DOI parameter will contain the DOI identifier to 
use.  A CIPSO implementation need only support one level of DOI assignment.


4.3    DOI Processing Requirements

A CIPSO implementation MUST support at least one DOI and SHOULD support
multiple DOIs.  System and network administrators are cautioned to
ensure that at least one DOI is common within an IP network to allow for
broadcasting of IP datagrams.  

CIPSO gateways must be capable of translating a CIPSO option from one 
DOI to another when forwarding datagrams between networks.  For 
efficiency purposes this capability is only a desired feature for CIPSO 



CIPSO IETF WORKING GROUP                                     [PAGE 10]



CIPSO INTERNET DRAFT                                   1 November, 1991



routers.


4.4    Label of ICMP Messages

The CIPSO label to be used on all outgoing ICMP messages will be equivalent 
to the label of the datagram that caused the ICMP message.  If the ICMP was 
generated due to a problem associated with the original CIPSO label then the 
following responses are allowed:

  a.  Use the CIPSO label of the original IP datagram
  b.  Drop the original datagram with no return message generated

In most cases these options will have the same effect.  If you can not 
interpret the label or if it is outside the label range of your host or 
interface then an ICMP message with the same label will probably not be 
able to exit the system. 


5.    Assignment of DOI Identifier Numbers

Requests for assignment of a DOI identifier number should be addressed to 
the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA).  


6.    Acknowledgements

Much of the material in this RFC is based on (and copied from) work
done by Gary Winiger of Sun Microsystems and published as Commercial
IP Security Option at the INTEROP 89, Commercial IPSO Workshop.


7.    Author's Address

To submit mail for distribution to members of the IETF CIPSO Working
Group, send mail to: cipso@wdl1.wdl.loral.com.

To be added to or deleted from this distribution, send mail to:
cipso-request@wdl1.wdl.loral.com.


8.    References

RFC 1038, "Draft Revised IP Security Option", M. St. Johns, IETF, January
1988.

Internet Draft AHWGIPSO-1, "U.S. Department of Defense Security Options 
for the Internet Protocol", Stephen Kent, IAB, 1 March, 1991.










CIPSO IETF WORKING GROUP                                     [PAGE 11]


