
Network Working Group                                         B. Kaliski
INTERNET-DRAFT                                   RSA Data Security, Inc.
                                                             1 July 1991


           Privacy Enhancement for Internet Electronic Mail:
  Part IV: Notary, Co-Issuer, CRL-Storing and CRL-Retrieving Services


STATUS OF THIS MEMO

   This draft document will be submitted to the RFC editor as a protocol
   specification. Comments should be sent to <pem-dev@tis.com> or to the
   author. Distribution of this memo is unlimited.


ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

   This document is the product of many discussions at RSA Data
   Security, Inc., at Trusted Information Systems, Inc., and on the
   <pem-dev@tis.com> mailing list. Contributors include Dave Balenson,
   Jim Bidzos, Pat Cain, Vint Cerf, Pam Cochrane, Steve Dusse, Jeff
   Fassett, Craig Finseth, Jim Galvin, Mike Indovina, Bob Jueneman,
   Steve Kent, John Lowry, Paul McKenney, Jeff Thompson, Charles Wu, and
   several others.


Table of Contents

   1. Executive Summary                                                1
   2. Terminology                                                      2
   3. Overview                                                         3
   4. Notary Service -- pem-notary                                     4
   5. Co-Issuer Service -- pem-co-issuer                               7
   6. CRL-Storing Service -- pem-crl-archive                          11
   7. CRL-Retrieving Service -- pem-crl-server                        12
   8. Other Services -- pem-info and pem-bug-report                   14
   9. Areas for Further Study                                         14
   10. Security Considerations                                        14
   References                                                         14
   Author's Address                                                   15
   APPENDIX - Top-Level Certification Authorities                     16



1. Executive Summary

   This document describes four services that top-level certification
   authorities (TLCAs) may provide in support of Internet Privacy-
   Enhanced Mail [1-3]: notary certificate-signing services, co-issuer
   certificate-signing and certificate revocation list (CRL)-signing
   services, CRL-storing services, and CRL-retrieving services. The


Kaliski                                                         [Page 1]
INTERNET-DRAFT           Mail Privacy: Services              1 July 1991


   document specifies the forms for interacting by electronic mail with
   TLCAs providing those services. It is intended as a reference for
   TLCAs and for implementors of privacy-enhanced mail software; it is
   not at the appropriate level for users, except for the CRL-retrieving
   service. The document also lists TLCAs.

   Certificate-signing services are provided on behalf of organizations
   registered with a TLCA and for users not affiliated with registered
   organizations; CRL-signing services are provided on behalf of
   registered organizations. CRL-storing and CRL-retrieving services are
   provided for all users. Registration of organizations, designation of
   organizational notaries for Privacy-Enhanced Mail, and the paper
   forms submitted in conjunction with electronic forms are outside the
   scope of this document. Nevertheless, such information should be
   available from TLCAs through the information service.

   This Internet draft is proposed as a successor to the RFC
   1113/1114/1115 Privacy-Enhanced Mail suite, describing procedures
   required by the other proposed successors to those RFCs [4-6]. It is
   expected that if this document and other proposed successors are
   accepted as RFCs, then references in this document to the proposed
   successors would be replaced by references to the new RFCs. This
   document may be referred to as Internet draft [FORMS-C].


2. Terminology

   Most terms in this document, such as certificate, CRL, and privacy-
   enhanced message, are defined in the proposed successors to RFCs
   1113, 1114 and 1115 [4-6].


2.1 Prototype Certificate

   A prototype certificate has the same syntax as a certificate
   (assuming the syntax given in the proposed successor to RFC 1114 [5])
   but the following differences in semantics:

     1.   The outer algorithm identifier (the one in the SIGNED
          macro) identifies a hash algorithm. The hash algorithm
          can be based on the issuer's signature algorithm, but it
          need not be. For example, if the issuer's signature
          algorithm is "rsaWithMD2" then the issuer's hash
          algorithm can be "md2," but it need not be "md2."

     2.   The signature (the one in the SIGNED macro) is the hash
          of the "to-be-signed" field under the outer hash
          algorithm.






Kaliski                                                         [Page 2]
INTERNET-DRAFT           Mail Privacy: Services              1 July 1991


2.2 Prototype CRL

   A prototype CRL has the same syntax as a CRL (assuming the syntax
   given in the proposed successor to RFC 1114 [5]) with the differences
   in semantics outlined for prototype certificates.


2.3 Prototype Privacy-Enhanced Message

   A prototype privacy-enhanced message is a privacy-enhanced message
   (assuming the syntax given in the proposed successor to RFC 1113 [4])
   that contains a prototype certificate or a prototype CRL where a
   "real" certificate or CRL would go. To be precise, a prototype
   privacy-enhanced message can have the MIC-CLEAR, MIC-ONLY, or CRL
   process type, as follows:

     MIC-CLEAR or MIC-ONLY: For these process types, the privacy-
          enhanced message should employ asymmetric cryptography;
          the message-integrity check (MIC) algorithm should be
          keyless (e.g., RSA-MD2, not MAC) so that the signature on
          that message can be verified by anyone; and there should
          be only one originator. The originator's "Certificate:"
          field should contain the prototype certificate, and there
          should not be any issuer certificates.

     CRL: For this process type, there should be one or more "CRL:"
          fields containing prototype CRLs. There should not be any
          certificates or issuer certificates.

   A prototype privacy-enhanced message is almost "real," in the sense
   that once the prototype certificate or CRLs it contains are signed,
   the privacy-enhanced message can be processed in the ordinary way.


3. Overview

   The key management infrastructure defined in the proposed successor
   to RFC 1114 [5] in support of Internet Privacy-Enhanced Mail implies
   that TLCAs support some of the following services:

     1.   Notary service, or certificate-signing service on behalf
          of users. The TLCA issues a certificate to a user under
          the TLCA's NOTARY organizational unit.

     2.   Co-issuer service, or certificate- and CRL-signing
          services on behalf of organizations. The TLCA holds an
          organization's private key and issues a certificate or a
          CRL on behalf of the organization, as requested by an
          organizational notary.

     3.   CRL-storing and CRL-retrieving services. The TLCA stores
          and retrieves CRLs.


Kaliski                                                         [Page 3]
INTERNET-DRAFT           Mail Privacy: Services              1 July 1991


   A TLCA may choose to support the first service or the second service
   or both. A TLCA must support the third service as well as bug-report
   and information services. Support of the third service must cover at
   least those CRLs signed by the TLCA and by organizations to which the
   TLCA issues certificates.

   This document gives details on how TLCAs should implement these
   services. All the services are based on electronic mail, although
   TLCAs may require paper forms in addition. Six electronic-mail
   addresses are defined:

     pem-notary: for the notary service

     pem-co-issuer: for the co-issuer service

     pem-crl-archive: for the CRL-storing service

     pem-crl-server: for the CRL-retrieving service

     pem-bug-report: for bug reports

     pem-info: for information

   Replies to service requests are sent to the address identified in the
   "Reply-To:" field of the request, and if that field is omitted, to
   the address identified in the "From:" field.


4. Notary Service -- pem-notary

   The notary service (electronic-mail address "pem-notary") signs
   certificates on behalf of users not affiliated with registered
   organizations. Notary service can be requested by any user. Such
   users are issued certificates under the TLCA's NOTARY organizational
   unit, in accordance with the proposed successor to RFC 1114 [5].

   The total process of accessing the notary service can be viewed in
   three parts: request preparation, request processing, and reply
   processing. This section describes those three parts, then gives
   examples.


4.1 Request Preparation

   A user prepares a request for notary service by constructing a
   prototype MIC-CLEAR or MIC-ONLY privacy-enhanced message with the
   user as originator, where the privacy-enhanced message contains a
   prototype certificate that the user wants the notary service to sign.

   There are three substeps to this step:




Kaliski                                                         [Page 4]
INTERNET-DRAFT           Mail Privacy: Services              1 July 1991


     1.   The user constructs a prototype certificate containing
          the user's distinguished name, the user's public key and
          prototype (not necessarily final) information in the
          other certificate fields. Here the issuer should be the
          TLCA's NOTARY organizational unit. This step can be done
          when the user generates a public-key/private-key pair, or
          at a later time.

     2.   The user prepares a prototype MIC-CLEAR or MIC-ONLY
          privacy-enhanced message containing the prototype
          certificate, some text, and the user's signature (with
          the user's newly generated private key) on the text. Some
          TLCAs may specify what the text of the message should be;
          in general, it should be something innocuous but user-
          specific like "This is a certificate for <name>."

     3.   The user sends the result of step 2 to the notary
          service.

   The notary service may require that the user accompany a request with
   a paper form or contract, and may require notarization of the form or
   contract by a notary public or other trusted entity. Such procedures
   are outside the scope of this document, but should be available
   through the TLCA's information service.


4.2 Request Processing

   The notary service processes a request by replacing the prototype
   certificate in the request with a signed version, and adding some
   certificates. Thus the result of processing is an "ordinary" privacy-
   enhanced message with the user as originator.

   There are four substeps to this step:

     1.   The notary service checks the user's signature on the
          text of the message. If the signature check is
          unsuccessful, processing stops.

     2.   The notary service gives final values to fields of the
          prototype certificate such as serial number, issuer name,
          and validity period. The notary service does not change
          the user's name or the user's public key, however.

     3.   The notary service signs the revised prototype
          certificate with the NOTARY organizational unit's private
          key and replaces the prototype certificate in the user's
          prototype privacy-enhanced message with the newly signed
          certificate. The notary service also adds the NOTARY
          unit's certificate to the message, and possibly some
          pairs of cross-certificates to expand the audience that
          can process the resulting message.


Kaliski                                                         [Page 5]
INTERNET-DRAFT           Mail Privacy: Services              1 July 1991


     4.   The notary service sends the result of step 3 to the user
          (or other party as indicated by the "Reply-To:" address).
          A separate error report, when necessary, is also sent to
          this address.

   The notary service may also send a paper reply to the user.


4.3 Reply Processing

   The recipient of the reply (typically the user) processes the reply
   like any other privacy-enhanced message, which results in the newly
   signed certificate and the other certifi-cates being inserted into
   the recipient's database. The recipient can subsequently send the
   reply to other users as a means of disseminating the new certificate.


4.4 Examples

   Following are an example request to the notary service, and an
   example reply. Notice that the user's Originator-ID: field in both
   the request and the reply omits the issuer name and serial number
   subfields, since the values of those subfields are implied by the
   prototype certificate or certificate. Those subfields can be included
   or omitted, as the proposed successor to RFC 1113 [4] allows.

To: pem-notary@tlca.domain
From: user@host.domain

-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 4,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-ID: user@host.domain::
Certificate: <user's prototype certificate>
MIC-Info: <user's signature on text>

<text>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----

   Figure 1. Example request to notary service to sign a certificate.















Kaliski                                                         [Page 6]
INTERNET-DRAFT           Mail Privacy: Services              1 July 1991


To: user@host.domain
From: pem-notary@tlca.domain

-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 4,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-ID: user@host.domain::
Certificate: <user's newly signed certificate>
Issuer-Certificate: <NOTARY organizational unit's certificate>
MIC-Info: <user's signature on text>

<text>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----

  Figure 2. Example reply from notary service including a newly signed
                              certificate.


5. Co-Issuer Service -- pem-co-issuer

   The co-issuer service (electronic-mail address "pem-co-issuer") signs
   certificates and CRLs on behalf of registered organizations whose
   private key the TLCA holds. Co-issuer service can be requested by any
   organizational notary authorized by the TLCA.

   A given organizational notary may be authorized to request co-issuer
   service for more than one organization, and more than one
   organizational notary may be authorized to request service for a
   given organization. The association of organizational notaries with
   organizations, and how a TLCA manages organizational notaries'
   authorization, is outside the scope of this document.

   The total process of accessing the co-issuer service can be viewed in
   three parts: request preparation, request processing, and reply
   processing. This section describes those three parts, then gives
   examples.

   Note. To avoid ambiguity, we note that an organizational notary is an
   individual in an organization authorized by that organization and the
   TLCA to request co-issuer service. The organizational notary is
   distinct from the TLCA's NOTARY unit.


5.1 Request Preparation

   An organizational notary prepares a request for co-issuer service by
   constructing a MIC-CLEAR or MIC-ONLY privacy-enhanced message with
   the organizational notary as originator, where the text of the
   privacy-enhanced message contains one or more prototype privacy-
   enhanced messages. Each prototype privacy-enhanced message contains a
   prototype certificate or one or more prototype CRLs that the
   organizational notary wants signed.



Kaliski                                                         [Page 7]
INTERNET-DRAFT           Mail Privacy: Services              1 July 1991


   There are three substeps to this step:

     1.   The organizational notary constructs, or otherwise
          obtains, one or more prototype privacy-enhanced messages
          containing prototype certificates and prototype CRLs that
          are to be signed. Here the prototype certificates and
          CRLs specify as issuer a registered organization on whose
          behalf the organizational notary is authorized to request
          co-issuer service.

          It is intended that a prototype privacy-enhanced message
          containing a prototype certificate follow the same
          conventions as one a user sends to the notary service
          (Section 4.1). A user's steps, consequently, are
          essentially the same whether the user is affiliated with
          a registered organization or not. The primary difference,
          however, is that the co-issuer service does not change
          any fields of the prototype certificate, whereas the
          notary service may. Thus the organizational notary must
          give final values to fields of the user's prototype
          certificate. Similarly, the organizational notary must
          give final values to fields of a prototype CRL.

     2.   The organizational notary "notarizes" the prototype
          privacy-enhanced messages by encapsulating them in a MIC-
          CLEAR or MIC-ONLY privacy-enhanced message, with the
          organizational notary as originator.

     3.   The organizational notary sends the result of step 2 to
          the co-issuer service.


5.2 Request Processing

   The co-issuer service processes a request by replacing the prototype
   certificates and CRLs in the request with signed versions, and adding
   some certificates. The result of processing is one or more privacy-
   enhanced messages, "back to back."

   There are four substeps to this step:

     1.   The co-issuer service checks the organizational notary's
          signature on the prototype privacy-enhanced message. If
          the signature check is unsuccessful, processing stops.

     2.   For each prototype private-enhanced message, the co-
          issuer service does the following:

          a.   If the prototype privacy-enhanced message contains a
               prototype certificate, the co-issuer service checks
               the user's signature on the text of the message. If



Kaliski                                                         [Page 8]
INTERNET-DRAFT           Mail Privacy: Services              1 July 1991


               the signature check is unsuccessful, processing of
               the particular privacy-enhanced message stops.

          b.   The co-issuer service signs the prototype
               certificate or CRLs contained in the privacy-
               enhanced message with the appropriate issuer's
               private key and replaces the prototype certificate
               or CRLs in the prototype privacy-enhanced messages
               with the newly signed certificate or CRLs. The
               notary service also adds the organization's
               certificate to the messages, and possibly some pairs
               of cross-certificates to expand the audience that
               can process the resulting message.

               The co-issuer service does not change any fields of
               a prototype certificate or CRL before signing it.
               The co-issuer service either signs a prototype
               certificate or CRL verbatim, or, if any values are
               erroneous, rejects the particular certificate or
               CRL.

     3.   The co-issuer service sends the result of step 2 to the
          organizational notary (or other party as indicated by
          "Reply-To:" address.) A separate error report, when
          necessary, is also sent to this address.

     4.   The co-issuer service sends newly signed CRLs resulting
          from step 2 to the CRL-storing service described in
          Section 6.)


5.3 Reply Processing

   The recipient of the reply (typically the organizational notary)
   processes the reply like any other set of "back to back" privacy-
   enhanced messages, which results in the newly signed certificates and
   CRLs being inserted into the recipient's database. The recipient can
   subsequently send the reply to other users as a means of
   disseminating the new certificates and CRLs.


5.4 Examples

   Following are example requests to the co-issuer service (one to sign
   a certificate, the other to sign a CRL), and example replies. Notice
   that the user's Originator-ID: field encapsulated in the request and
   the reply omits the issuer name and serial number subfields, as in
   Section 4.4. The organizational notary's Originator-ID: field, on the
   other hand, includes both subfields, since the organizational notary
   does not include a certificate. The subfields can be included or
   omitted, as the proposed successor to RFC 1113 [4] allows.



Kaliski                                                         [Page 9]
INTERNET-DRAFT           Mail Privacy: Services              1 July 1991


To: pem-co-issuer@tlca.domain
From: organizational-notary@host.domain
Reply-To: user@host.domain

-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 4,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-ID: organizational-notary@host.domain:
 <organization's name>:<serial number>
MIC-Info: <organizational notary's signature on prototype message>

- -----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 4,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-ID: user@host.domain::
Certificate: <user's prototype certificate>
MIC-Info: <user's signature on text>

<text>
- -----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED-MESSAGE-----
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----

 Figure 3. Example request to co-issuer service to sign a certificate.

To: user@host.domain
From: pem-co-issuer@tlca.domain

-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 4,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-ID: user@host.domain::
Certificate: <user's newly signed certificate>
Issuer-Certificate: <organization's certificate>
MIC-Info: <user's signature on text>

<text>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----

Figure 4. Example reply from co-issuer service, including a newly signed
                              certificate.

















Kaliski                                                        [Page 10]
INTERNET-DRAFT           Mail Privacy: Services              1 July 1991


To: pem-co-issuer@tlca.domain
From: organizational-notary@host.domain

-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 4,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-ID: organizational-notary@host.domain:
 <organization's name>:<serial number>
MIC-Info: <organizational notary's signature on prototype message>

- -----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 4,CRL
CRL: <prototype CRL>
- -----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----

     Figure 5. Example request to co-issuer service to sign a CRL.

To: organizational-notary@host.domain
Cc: pem-crl-archive@tlca.domain
From: pem-co-issuer@tlca.domain

-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 4,CRL
CRL: <newly signed CRL>
Certificate: <organization's certificate>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----

Figure 6. Example reply from co-issuer service, including a newly signed
                                  CRL.


6. CRL-Storing Service -- pem-crl-archive

   The CRL-storing service (electronic-mail address "pem-crl-archive")
   stores CRLs. CRL-storing service can be requested by any user,
   although it is expected that CRL-storing service will be requested
   primarily by organizational notaries of organizations for which the
   TLCA is not a co-issuer. The co-issuer service automatically sends
   newly signed CRLs to the CRL-storing service, so organizational
   notaries of organizations for which the TLCA is a co-issuer need not
   use the CRL-storing service directly.

   The total process of accessing the CRL-storing service can be viewed
   in two parts: request preparation and request processing. There is no
   significant reply processing, since a reply is just an
   acknowledgement. This section describes those two parts, then gives
   an example.







Kaliski                                                        [Page 11]
INTERNET-DRAFT           Mail Privacy: Services              1 July 1991


6.1 Request Preparation

   A user or organizational notary prepares a request for CRL-storing
   service by constructing a CRL-type privacy-enhanced message, where
   the privacy-enhanced message contains CRLs that the user or
   organizational notary wants stored. The user or organizational notary
   sends the result to the CRL-storing service.


6.2 Request Processing

   The CRL-storing service stores the CRLs in the request, provided they
   are valid, and replies with an acknowledgement (or an error report).


6.3 Example

   Following is an example request to the CRL-storing service and an
   example reply.

To: pem-crl-archive@tlca.domain
From: organizational-notary@host.domain

-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 4,CRL
CRL: <CRL to be stored>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----

    Figure 7. Example request to CRL-storing service to store a CRL.

To: organizational-notary@host.domain
From: pem-crl-archive@tlca.domain

Your request to store a CRL for

organizationalUnitName=Widgets Division, XYZ Inc., US

has been processed successfully.

           Figure 8. Example reply from CRL-storing service.


7. CRL-Retrieving Service -- pem-crl-server

   The CRL-retrieving service (electronic-mail address "pem-crl-server")
   retrieves CRLs. CRL-retrieving service can be requested by any user.

   A side-effect of this service is that current cross-certificate
   pairs, and relevant current CRLs other than those requested, are made
   available.




Kaliski                                                        [Page 12]
INTERNET-DRAFT           Mail Privacy: Services              1 July 1991


   The total process of accessing the CRL-retrieving service can be
   viewed in three parts: request preparation, request processing, and
   reply processing. This section describes those three parts, then
   gives examples.


7.1 Request Preparation

   A user prepares a request for CRL-retrieving service by constructing
   a message that contains distinguished names of one or more issuers,
   separated by blank lines. The names are represented according to the
   User-Friendly Name syntax [7]. The names identify the issuers whose
   latest CRLs the user wants.


7.2 Request Processing

   The CRL-retrieving service processes a request by replacing the
   issuer distinguished names in the request with the latest CRLs for
   the issuers, and adding some certificates. The result of processing
   is a CRL-type privacy-enhanced message containing one or more CRLs.
   The CRL-retrieving service also adds the requested issuers'
   certificates, possibly some pairs of cross-certificates, and other
   relevant CRLs to expand the audience that can process the resulting
   message.

   The CRL-retrieving service sends a separate error report if
   necessary.


7.3 Reply Processing

   The recipient of the reply processes the reply like any other CRL-
   type privacy-enhanced message, which results in the CRLs being
   inserted into the recipient's database. The recipient can
   subsequently send the reply to other users as a means of
   disseminating the CRLs.


7.4 Examples

   Following are an example request and an example reply. The request is
   for the latest CRLs issued by RSA Data Security, Inc.'s TLCA and
   NOTARY organizational units.










Kaliski                                                        [Page 13]
INTERNET-DRAFT           Mail Privacy: Services              1 July 1991


To: pem-crl-server@tlca.domain
From: user@host.domain

organizationalUnitName=TLCA, "RSA Data Security, Inc.", US

organizationalUnitName=NOTARY, "RSA Data Security, Inc.", US

  Figure 9. Example request to CRL-retrieving service to retrieve two
                                 CRLs.

To: user@host.domain
From: pem-crl-server@tlca.domain

-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 4,CRL
CRL: <latest CRL issued by RSA Data Security, Inc.'s TLCA unit>
CRL: <latest CRL issued by RSA Data Security, Inc.'s NOTARY unit>
Certificate: <RSA Data Security, Inc.'s NOTARY unit's certificate>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----

  Figure 10. Example reply from CRL-retrieving service, including two
                                 CRLs.


8. Other Services -- pem-info and pem-bug-report

   The information service (electronic-mail address: pem-info) provides
   information about the TLCA's services, and the bug-report service
   (electronic-mail address: pem-bug-report) receives reports on bugs in
   the services.


9. Areas for Further Study

   One important area for further study is what services are needed for
   certifying organizations for which the TLCA is not a co-issuer (in
   particular, other TLCAs).


10. Security Considerations

   Some of the services described in this memo rely on the security of
   Privacy-Enhanced Mail. In particular, the co-issuer service relies on
   the trustworthiness of Privacy-Enhanced Mail purportedly signed by an
   organizational notary.


References

     [1]  Linn, J., Privacy Enhancement for Internet Electronic
          Mail: Part I -- Message Encipherment and Authentication
          Procedures (RFC 1113), August 1989.


Kaliski                                                        [Page 14]
INTERNET-DRAFT           Mail Privacy: Services              1 July 1991


     [2]  Kent, S., and J. Linn, Privacy Enhancement for Internet
          Electronic Mail: Part II -- Certificate-Based Key
          Management (RFC 1114), August 1989.

     [3]  Linn, J., Privacy Enhancement for Internet Electronic
          Mail: Part III -- Algorithms, Modes, and Identifiers (RFC
          1115), August 1989.

     [4]  Linn, J., Privacy Enhancement for Internet Electronic
          Mail: Part I: Message Encryption and Authentication
          Procedures (Internet Draft), March 1991.

     [5]  Kent, S., Privacy Enhancement for Internet Electronic
          Mail: Part II: Certificate-Based Key Management
          (unofficially, RFC [1114B]), February 1991.

     [6]  Balenson, D., Privacy Enhancement for Internet Electronic
          Mail: Part III: Algorithms, Modes, and Identifiers
          (unofficially, RFC [1115B]), February 1991.

     [7]  Kille, S.E., Using the OSI Directory to Achieve User
          Friendly Naming (Internet Draft), January 1991.


Author's Address

   Burton S. Kaliski Jr.
   RSA Data Security, Inc.
   10 Twin Dolphin Drive
   Redwood City, CA  94065
   Phone: (415) 595-8782
   FAX: (415) 595-1873
   EMail: kaliski@rsa.com





















Kaliski                                                        [Page 15]
INTERNET-DRAFT           Mail Privacy: Services              1 July 1991



APPENDIX - Top-Level Certification Authorities

   This appendix lists TLCAs providing services described in this
   document.


A.1 RSA Data Security, Inc.

   RSA Data Security, Inc. provides all six services described in this
   document ("pem-notary," "pem-co-issuer," "pem-crl-archive," "pem-crl-
   server," "pem-info," and "pem-bug-report") at the host "rsa.com." For
   more information, including organizational contracts and paper re-
   quest forms, write or call:

          RSA Data Security, Inc.
          10 Twin Dolphin Drive
          Redwood City, CA  94065
          Phone: (415) 595-8782
          FAX: (415) 595-1873
          EMail: pem-info@rsa.com

   RSA Data Security, Inc. has both TLCA and NOTARY organizational
   units. They are:

     organizationalUnitName=TLCA, "RSA Data Security, Inc.", US

   and

     organizationalUnitName=NOTARY, "RSA Data Security, Inc.", US

   Their public keys, respectively, are:

     (to be supplied)

   and

     (to be supplied)

   As of this writing, these services are NOT YET ACTIVE.














Kaliski                                                        [Page 16]
